README.md, before:

# TP-Link Router API (supports also Mercusys Router)
Python package for API access and management for TP-Link and Mercusys Routers. See [Supported routers](#supports)

[![Pypi](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/tplinkrouterc6u)](https://pypi.org/project/tplinkrouterc6u/)
[![Downloads](https://static.pepy.tech/personalized-badge/tplinkrouterc6u?period=total&units=international_system&left_color=grey&right_color=orange&left_text=Downloads)](https://pypi.org/project/tplinkrouterc6u/)
![Python versions](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/tplinkrouterc6u)

## Installation
`pip install tplinkrouterc6u`

## Dependencies
 - [requests](https://pypi.org/project/requests/)
 - [pycryptodome](https://pypi.org/project/pycryptodome/)

## Usage
Enter the host & credentials used to log in to your router management page. Username is admin by default. But you may pass username as third parameter

```python
from tplinkrouterc6u import (
    TplinkRouterProvider,
    TplinkRouter,
    TplinkC1200Router,
    TplinkC5400XRouter,
    TPLinkMRClient,
    TPLinkVRClient,
    TPLinkEXClient,
    TPLinkXDRClient,
    TPLinkDecoClient,
    TplinkC80Router,
    TplinkWDRRouter,
    Connection
)
from logging import Logger

router = TplinkRouterProvider.get_client('http://192.168.0.1', 'password')
# You may use client directly like
# router = TplinkRouter('http://192.168.0.1', 'password')
# You may also pass username if it is different and a logger to log errors as
# router = TplinkRouter('http://192.168.0.1','password','admin2', Logger('test'))
# If you have the TP-link C5400X or similar, you can use the TplinkC5400XRouter class instead of the TplinkRouter class.
# Remember that the password for this router is different, here you need to use the web encrypted password.
# To get web encrypted password, read Web Encrypted Password section
# router = TplinkC5400XRouter('http://192.168.0.1','WebEncryptedPassword', Logger('test'))

try:
    router.authorize()  # authorizing
    # Get firmware info - returns Firmware
    firmware = router.get_firmware()

    # Get status info - returns Status
    status = router.get_status()
    if not status.guest_2g_enable:  # check if guest 2.4G wifi is disable
        router.set_wifi(Connection.GUEST_2G, True)  # turn on guest 2.4G wifi

    # Get Address reservations, sort by ipaddr
    reservations = router.get_ipv4_reservations()
    reservations.sort(key=lambda a: a.ipaddr)
    for res in reservations:
        print(f"{res.macaddr} {res.ipaddr:16s} {res.hostname:36} {'Permanent':12}")

    # Get DHCP leases, sort by ipaddr
    leases = router.get_ipv4_dhcp_leases()
    leases.sort(key=lambda a: a.ipaddr)
    for lease in leases:
        print(f"{lease.macaddr} {lease.ipaddr:16s} {lease.hostname:36} {lease.lease_time:12}")
finally:
    router.logout()  # always logout as TP-Link Web Interface only supports upto 1 user logged
```

The TP-Link Web Interface only supports upto 1 user logged in at a time (for security reasons, apparently).
So before action you need to authorize and after logout

### <a id="encrypted_pass">Web Encrypted Password</a>
If you got exception - `use web encrypted password instead. Check the documentation!`
or you have TP-link C5400X or similar router you need to get web encrypted password by these actions:
1. Go to the login page of your router. (default: 192.168.0.1).
2. Type in the password you use to login into the password field.
3. Click somewhere else on the page so that the password field is not selected anymore.
4. Open the JavaScript console of your browser (usually by pressing F12 and then clicking on "Console").
5. Type `document.getElementById("login-password").value;`
6. Copy the returned value as password and use it.

## Functions
| Function | Args | Description | Return |
|---|---|---|---|
| get_firmware |   | Gets firmware info about the router | [Firmware](#firmware) |
| get_status |   | Gets status about the router info including wifi statuses and connected devices info | [Status](#status) |
| get_ipv4_status |   | Gets WAN and LAN IPv4 status info, gateway, DNS, netmask | [IPv4Status](#IPv4Status) |
| get_ipv4_reservations |   | Gets IPv4 reserved addresses (static) | [[IPv4Reservation]](#IPv4Reservation) |
| get_ipv4_dhcp_leases |   | Gets IPv4 addresses assigned via DHCP | [[IPv4DHCPLease]](#IPv4DHCPLease) | 
| set_wifi | wifi: [Connection](#connection), enable: bool | Allow to turn on/of 4 wifi networks |   |
| reboot |   | reboot router |
| authorize |   | authorize for actions |
| logout |   | logout after all is done |
| get_vpn_status |   | Gets VPN info for OpenVPN and PPTPVPN and connected clients amount | [VPNStatus](#vpn_status) |
| set_vpn | vpn: [VPNStatus](#vpn_status), enable: bool | Allow to turn on/of VPN |   |
| send_sms | phone_number: str, message: str | Send sms for LTE routers |   |
| send_ussd | command: str | Send USSD command for LTE routers | str |
| get_sms | | Get sms messages from the first page for LTE routers | [[SMS]](#sms) |
| set_sms_read | sms: [SMS](#sms) | Set sms message read from the first page for LTE routers |   |
| delete_sms | sms: [SMS](#sms) | Delete sms message from the first page for LTE routers |   |
| get_lte_status | | Get lte info for LTE routers | [LTEStatus](#lte_status)  |

## Dataclass
### <a id="firmware">Firmware</a>
| Field | Description | Type |
| --- |----|----|
| hardware_version | Returns like - Archer C6U | str |
| model | Returns like - Archer C6U v1.0 | str |
| firmware_version | Returns like - 1.1.3 Build 3425243 | str |

### <a id="status">Status</a>
| Field | Description | Type |
|---|---|---|
| wan_macaddr | router wan mac address | str, None |
| wan_macaddress | router wan mac address | macaddress.EUI48, None |
| lan_macaddr | router lan mac address | str |
| lan_macaddress | router lan mac address | macaddress.EUI48 |
| wan_ipv4_addr | router wan ipv4 address | str, None |
| wan_ipv4_address | router wan ipv4 address | ipaddress.IPv4Address, None |
| lan_ipv4_addr | router lan ipv4 address | str, None |
| lan_ipv4_address | router lan ipv4 address | ipaddress.IPv4Address, None |
| wan_ipv4_gateway | router wan ipv4 gateway | str, None |
| wan_ipv4_gateway_address | router wan ipv4 gateway address | ipaddress.IPv4Address, None |
| wired_total | Total amount of wired clients | int |
| wifi_clients_total | Total amount of host wifi clients | int |
| guest_clients_total | Total amount of guest wifi clients | int |
| clients_total | Total amount of all connected clients | int |
| iot_clients_total | Total amount of all iot connected clients | int, None |
| guest_2g_enable | Is guest wifi 2.4G enabled | bool |
| guest_5g_enable | Is guest wifi 5G enabled | bool, None |
| guest_6g_enable | Is guest wifi 6G enabled | bool, None |
| iot_2g_enable | Is IoT wifi 2.4G enabled | bool, None |
| iot_5g_enable | Is IoT wifi 5G enabled | bool, None |
| iot_6g_enable | Is IoT wifi 6G enabled | bool, None |
| wifi_2g_enable | Is host wifi 2.4G enabled | bool |
| wifi_5g_enable | Is host wifi 5G enabled | bool, None |
| wifi_6g_enable | Is host wifi 6G enabled | bool, None |
| wan_ipv4_uptime | Internet Uptime | int, None |
| mem_usage | Memory usage in percentage between 0 and 1 | float, None |
| cpu_usage | CPU usage in percentage between 0 and 1 | float, None |
| conn_type | Connection type | str, None |
| devices | List of all connectedd devices | list[[Device](#device)] |

### <a id="device">Device</a>
| Field | Description | Type |
| --- |---|---|
| type | client connection type (2.4G or 5G, guest wifi or host wifi, wired) | [Connection](#connection) |
| macaddr | client mac address | str |
| macaddress | client mac address | macaddress |
| ipaddr | client ip address | str |
| ipaddress | client ip address | ipaddress |
| hostname | client hostname | str |
| packets_sent | total packets sent | int, None |
| packets_received | total packets received | int, None |
| down_speed | download speed | int, None |
| up_speed | upload speed | int, None |
| signal | Signal strength | int, None |
| active | Is active device | bool |

### <a id="IPv4Reservation">IPv4Reservation</a>
| Field | Description | Type |
| --- |---|---|
| macaddr | client mac address | str |
| macaddress| client mac address | macaddress |
| ipaddr | client ip address | str |
| ipaddress | client ip address | ipaddress |
| hostname | client hostname | str |
| enabled | enabled | bool |

### <a id="IPv4DHCPLease">IPv4DHCPLease</a>
| Field | Description | Type |
| --- |---|---|
| macaddr | client mac address | str |
| macaddress | client mac address | macaddress |
| ipaddr | client ip address | str |
| ipaddress | client ip address | ipaddress |
| hostname | client hostname | str |
| lease_time | ip address lease time | str |

### <a id="IPv4Status">IPv4Status</a>
| Field | Description | Type |
| --- |---|---|
| wan_macaddr | router mac address | str |
| wan_macaddress | router mac address | macaddress |
| wan_ipv4_ipaddr | router mac address | str, None |
| wan_ipv4_ipaddress | router mac address | ipaddress.IPv4Address, None |
| wan_ipv4_gateway | router WAN gateway IP address | str, None |
| wan_ipv4_gateway_address | router WAN gateway IP address | ipaddress.IPv4Address, None |
| wan_ipv4_conntype | router connection type | str |
| wan_ipv4_netmask | router WAN gateway IP netmask | str, None |
| wan_ipv4_netmask_address | router WAN gateway IP netmask | ipaddress.IPv4Address, None |
| wan_ipv4_pridns | router primary dns server | str |
| wan_ipv4_pridns_address | router primary dns server | ipaddress |
| wan_ipv4_snddns | router secondary dns server | str |
| wan_ipv4_snddns_address | router secondary dns server | ipaddress |
| lan_macaddr | router mac address | str |
| lan_macaddress | router mac address | macaddress |
| lan_ipv4_ipaddr | router LAN IP address | str |
| lan_ipv4_ipaddress | router LAN IP address | ipaddress |
| lan_ipv4_dhcp_enable | router LAN DHCP enabled | bool |
| lan_ipv4_netmask | router LAN gateway IP netmask | str |
| lan_ipv4_netmask_address | router LAN gateway IP netmask | ipaddress |
| remote | router remote | bool, None |

### <a id="vpn_status">VPNStatus</a>
| Field | Description | Type |
| --- |---|---|
| openvpn_enable | OpenVPN is enabled | bool |
| pptpvpn_enable | PPTPVPN is enabled | bool |
| openvpn_clients_total | OpenVPN clients connected | int |
| pptpvpn_clients_total | PPTPVPN clients connected | int |

### <a id="sms">SMS</a>
| Field | Description | Type |
| --- |---|---|
| id | message index | int |
| sender| sender | str |
| content| sms text | str |
| received_at| received datetime | datetime |
| unread| is message unread | bool |

### <a id="lte_status">LTEStatus</a>
| Field | Description | Type |
| --- |---|---|
| enable | is enabled | int |
| connect_status | connect status | int |
| network_type | network type | int |
| sim_status | sim status | int |
| total_statistics | total statistics in bytes | int |
| cur_rx_speed | current download speed in bytes per second  | int |
| cur_tx_speed | current upload speed in bytes per second  | int |
| sms_unread_count | sms unread amount  | int |
| sig_level | signal level  | int |
| rsrp | RSRP  | int |
| rsrq | RSRQ  | int |
| snr | SNR  | int |
| isp_name | ISP name  | str |

## Enum
### <a id="connection">Connection</a>
- Connection.HOST_2G - host wifi 2.4G
- Connection.HOST_5G - host wifi 5G
- Connection.HOST_6G - host wifi 5G
- Connection.GUEST_2G - guest wifi 2.4G
- Connection.GUEST_5G - guest wifi 5G
- Connection.GUEST_6G - guest wifi 5G
- Connection.IOT_2G - IoT wifi 2.4G
- Connection.IOT_5G - IoT wifi 5G
- Connection.IOT_6G - IoT wifi 6G
- Connection.WIRED - Wired

### <a id="vpn">VPN</a>
- VPN.OPEN_VPN
- VPN.PPTP_VPN

## <a id="supports">Supported routers</a>
- [TP-LINK routers](#tplink)
- [MERCUSYS routers](#mercusys)
### <a id="tplink">TP-LINK routers</a>
- Archer A6 V2.0
- Archer A7 V5
- Archer A8 (1.0, 2.20)
- Archer A9 V6
- Archer A20 v1.0
- Archer AX10 v1.0
- Archer AX12 v1.0
- Archer AX20 (v1.0, v3.0)
- Archer AX21 (v1.20, v3.0)
- Archer AX23 (v1.0, v1.2)
- Archer AX50 v1.0
- Archer AX53 v2
- Archer AX55 (v1.0, V1.60, v4.0)
- Archer AX72 V1
- Archer AX73 V1
- Archer AX75 V1
- Archer AX90 V1.20
- Archer AXE75 V1
- Archer AXE5400 v1.0
- Archer AXE16000
- Archer AX1800
- Archer AX3000 V1
- Archer AX6000 V1
- Archer AX11000 V1
- Archer BE230 v1.0
- Archer BE400 v1.0
- Archer BE550 v1.0
- Archer BE800 v1.0
- Archer BE805 v1.0
- Archer BE3600 1.6
- Archer C1200 (v1.0, v2.0)
- Archer C2300 (v1.0, v2.0)
- Archer C6 (v2.0, v3.0, v3.20, 4.0)
- Archer C6U v1.0
- Archer C7 (v4.0, v5.0)
- Archer C24 (1.0, 2.0)
- Archer C60 v2.0
- Archer C80 (1.0, 2.20)
- Archer C5400X V1
- Archer GX90 v1.0
- Archer MR200 (v5, v5.3, v6.0)
- Archer MR550 v1
- Archer MR600 (v1, v2, v3)
- Archer VR400 v3
- Archer VR600 v3
- Archer VR900v
- Archer VR1200v v1
- Archer VR2100v v1
- Archer VX1800v v1.0
- BE11000 2.0
- Deco M4 2.0
- Deco M4R 2.0
- Deco M5 v3
- Deco M9 Pro
- Deco M9 Plus 1.0
- Deco P7
- Deco X20
- Deco X50 v1.3
- Deco X55 1.0
- Deco X60 V3
- Deco X90
- Deco XE75 (v1.0, v2.0)
- Deco XE75PRO (v3.0)
- EX511 v2.0
- HX510 v1.0
- NX510v v1.0
- TD-W9960 (v1, V1.20)
- TL-MR100 v2.0
- TL-MR105
- TL-MR110-Outdoor v1.0
- TL-MR6400 (v5, v5.3)
- TL-MR6500v
- TL-WA1201 3.0
- TL-WA3001 v1.0
- TL-XDR3010 V2
- TL-WDR3600 V1
- VX420-G2h v1.1
- XC220-G3v v2.30
### <a id="mercusys">MERCUSYS routers</a>
- MR47BE v1.0
- MR50G 1.0
- H60XR 1.0
- Halo H80X 1.0

Please let me know if you have tested integration with any other model. Open an issue with info about router's model, hardware and firmware versions.

## <a id="add_support">Adding Support For More Models</a>
Guidelines [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/AlexandrErohin/TP-Link-Archer-C6U/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)

## Local Development

- Download this repository.
- Run `pip install -e path/to/repo`.
- Make changes to files within the `tplinkrouter6u` directory.
- Exercise the changes following the "Usage" section above.

The sanity check test.py illustrates a few tests and runs through a list of queries in queries.txt creating logs of the results of each query in the logs folder. This can be used to capture the dictionary output of all cgi-bin form submissions.

### Run tests
- Run `python -m unittest discover ./test`

## Thanks To
 - [EncryptionWrapper for TP-Link Archer C6U](https://github.com/ericpignet/home-assistant-tplink_router/pull/42/files) by [@Singleton-95](https://github.com/Singleton-95)
 - [Encryption for TP-Link W9960](https://github.com/Electry/TPLink-W9960-APIClient) by [@Electry](https://github.com/Electry)

Commit message:

Added support for creating, removing and getting drafted SMS messages, also getting all messages

README.md, after:

# This fork adds support for saving, getting and deleting draft SMS messages - you can also get all messages, not just from the first page - I added the details in the function tables. This functionality was tested on a TL-MR150 v2 with firmare 1.3.0 0.9.1 v0001.0 Build 220315.

# TP-Link Router API (supports also Mercusys Router)
Python package for API access and management for TP-Link and Mercusys Routers. See [Supported routers](#supports)

[![Pypi](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/tplinkrouterc6u)](https://pypi.org/project/tplinkrouterc6u/)
[![Downloads](https://static.pepy.tech/personalized-badge/tplinkrouterc6u?period=total&units=international_system&left_color=grey&right_color=orange&left_text=Downloads)](https://pypi.org/project/tplinkrouterc6u/)
![Python versions](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/tplinkrouterc6u)

## Installation
`pip install tplinkrouterc6u`

## Dependencies
 - [requests](https://pypi.org/project/requests/)
 - [pycryptodome](https://pypi.org/project/pycryptodome/)

## Usage
Enter the host & credentials used to log in to your router management page. Username is admin by default. But you may pass username as third parameter

```python
from tplinkrouterc6u import (
    TplinkRouterProvider,
    TplinkRouter,
    TplinkC1200Router,
    TplinkC5400XRouter,
    TPLinkMRClient,
    TPLinkVRClient,
    TPLinkEXClient,
    TPLinkXDRClient,
    TPLinkDecoClient,
    TplinkC80Router,
    TplinkWDRRouter,
    Connection
)
from logging import Logger

router = TplinkRouterProvider.get_client('http://192.168.0.1', 'password')
# You may use client directly like
# router = TplinkRouter('http://192.168.0.1', 'password')
# You may also pass username if it is different and a logger to log errors as
# router = TplinkRouter('http://192.168.0.1','password','admin2', Logger('test'))
# If you have the TP-link C5400X or similar, you can use the TplinkC5400XRouter class instead of the TplinkRouter class.
# Remember that the password for this router is different, here you need to use the web encrypted password.
# To get web encrypted password, read Web Encrypted Password section
# router = TplinkC5400XRouter('http://192.168.0.1','WebEncryptedPassword', Logger('test'))

try:
    router.authorize()  # authorizing
    # Get firmware info - returns Firmware
    firmware = router.get_firmware()

    # Get status info - returns Status
    status = router.get_status()
    if not status.guest_2g_enable:  # check if guest 2.4G wifi is disable
        router.set_wifi(Connection.GUEST_2G, True)  # turn on guest 2.4G wifi

    # Get Address reservations, sort by ipaddr
    reservations = router.get_ipv4_reservations()
    reservations.sort(key=lambda a: a.ipaddr)
    for res in reservations:
        print(f"{res.macaddr} {res.ipaddr:16s} {res.hostname:36} {'Permanent':12}")

    # Get DHCP leases, sort by ipaddr
    leases = router.get_ipv4_dhcp_leases()
    leases.sort(key=lambda a: a.ipaddr)
    for lease in leases:
        print(f"{lease.macaddr} {lease.ipaddr:16s} {lease.hostname:36} {lease.lease_time:12}")
finally:
    router.logout()  # always logout as TP-Link Web Interface only supports upto 1 user logged
```

The TP-Link Web Interface only supports upto 1 user logged in at a time (for security reasons, apparently).
So before action you need to authorize and after logout

### <a id="encrypted_pass">Web Encrypted Password</a>
If you got exception - `use web encrypted password instead. Check the documentation!`
or you have TP-link C5400X or similar router you need to get web encrypted password by these actions:
1. Go to the login page of your router. (default: 192.168.0.1).
2. Type in the password you use to login into the password field.
3. Click somewhere else on the page so that the password field is not selected anymore.
4. Open the JavaScript console of your browser (usually by pressing F12 and then clicking on "Console").
5. Type `document.getElementById("login-password").value;`
6. Copy the returned value as password and use it.

## Functions
| Function | Args | Description | Return |
|---|---|---|---|
| get_firmware |   | Gets firmware info about the router | [Firmware](#firmware) |
| get_status |   | Gets status about the router info including wifi statuses and connected devices info | [Status](#status) |
| get_ipv4_status |   | Gets WAN and LAN IPv4 status info, gateway, DNS, netmask | [IPv4Status](#IPv4Status) |
| get_ipv4_reservations |   | Gets IPv4 reserved addresses (static) | [[IPv4Reservation]](#IPv4Reservation) |
| get_ipv4_dhcp_leases |   | Gets IPv4 addresses assigned via DHCP | [[IPv4DHCPLease]](#IPv4DHCPLease) | 
| set_wifi | wifi: [Connection](#connection), enable: bool | Allow to turn on/of 4 wifi networks |   |
| reboot |   | reboot router |
| authorize |   | authorize for actions |
| logout |   | logout after all is done |
| get_vpn_status |   | Gets VPN info for OpenVPN and PPTPVPN and connected clients amount | [VPNStatus](#vpn_status) |
| set_vpn | vpn: [VPNStatus](#vpn_status), enable: bool | Allow to turn on/of VPN |   |
| send_sms | phone_number: str, message: str, draft: bool | Send or draft sms for LTE routers |   |
| send_ussd | command: str | Send USSD command for LTE routers | str |
| get_sms | getFromDraft: bool, getAll: bool | Get either received or drafted sms messages from the first page or all of them for LTE routers | [[SMS]](#sms) |
| set_sms_read | sms: [SMS](#sms) | Set sms message read from the first page for LTE routers |   |
| delete_sms | sms: [SMS](#sms), deleteFromDraft: bool | Delete sms message from the first page for LTE routers - received or drafted |   |
| get_lte_status | | Get lte info for LTE routers | [LTEStatus](#lte_status)  |

## Dataclass
### <a id="firmware">Firmware</a>
| Field | Description | Type |
| --- |----|----|
| hardware_version | Returns like - Archer C6U | str |
| model | Returns like - Archer C6U v1.0 | str |
| firmware_version | Returns like - 1.1.3 Build 3425243 | str |

### <a id="status">Status</a>
| Field | Description | Type |
|---|---|---|
| wan_macaddr | router wan mac address | str, None |
| wan_macaddress | router wan mac address | macaddress.EUI48, None |
| lan_macaddr | router lan mac address | str |
| lan_macaddress | router lan mac address | macaddress.EUI48 |
| wan_ipv4_addr | router wan ipv4 address | str, None |
| wan_ipv4_address | router wan ipv4 address | ipaddress.IPv4Address, None |
| lan_ipv4_addr | router lan ipv4 address | str, None |
| lan_ipv4_address | router lan ipv4 address | ipaddress.IPv4Address, None |
| wan_ipv4_gateway | router wan ipv4 gateway | str, None |
| wan_ipv4_gateway_address | router wan ipv4 gateway address | ipaddress.IPv4Address, None |
| wired_total | Total amount of wired clients | int |
| wifi_clients_total | Total amount of host wifi clients | int |
| guest_clients_total | Total amount of guest wifi clients | int |
| clients_total | Total amount of all connected clients | int |
| iot_clients_total | Total amount of all iot connected clients | int, None |
| guest_2g_enable | Is guest wifi 2.4G enabled | bool |
| guest_5g_enable | Is guest wifi 5G enabled | bool, None |
| guest_6g_enable | Is guest wifi 6G enabled | bool, None |
| iot_2g_enable | Is IoT wifi 2.4G enabled | bool, None |
| iot_5g_enable | Is IoT wifi 5G enabled | bool, None |
| iot_6g_enable | Is IoT wifi 6G enabled | bool, None |
| wifi_2g_enable | Is host wifi 2.4G enabled | bool |
| wifi_5g_enable | Is host wifi 5G enabled | bool, None |
| wifi_6g_enable | Is host wifi 6G enabled | bool, None |
| wan_ipv4_uptime | Internet Uptime | int, None |
| mem_usage | Memory usage in percentage between 0 and 1 | float, None |
| cpu_usage | CPU usage in percentage between 0 and 1 | float, None |
| conn_type | Connection type | str, None |
| devices | List of all connectedd devices | list[[Device](#device)] |

### <a id="device">Device</a>
| Field | Description | Type |
| --- |---|---|
| type | client connection type (2.4G or 5G, guest wifi or host wifi, wired) | [Connection](#connection) |
| macaddr | client mac address | str |
| macaddress | client mac address | macaddress |
| ipaddr | client ip address | str |
| ipaddress | client ip address | ipaddress |
| hostname | client hostname | str |
| packets_sent | total packets sent | int, None |
| packets_received | total packets received | int, None |
| down_speed | download speed | int, None |
| up_speed | upload speed | int, None |
| signal | Signal strength | int, None |
| active | Is active device | bool |

### <a id="IPv4Reservation">IPv4Reservation</a>
| Field | Description | Type |
| --- |---|---|
| macaddr | client mac address | str |
| macaddress| client mac address | macaddress |
| ipaddr | client ip address | str |
| ipaddress | client ip address | ipaddress |
| hostname | client hostname | str |
| enabled | enabled | bool |

### <a id="IPv4DHCPLease">IPv4DHCPLease</a>
| Field | Description | Type |
| --- |---|---|
| macaddr | client mac address | str |
| macaddress | client mac address | macaddress |
| ipaddr | client ip address | str |
| ipaddress | client ip address | ipaddress |
| hostname | client hostname | str |
| lease_time | ip address lease time | str |

### <a id="IPv4Status">IPv4Status</a>
| Field | Description | Type |
| --- |---|---|
| wan_macaddr | router mac address | str |
| wan_macaddress | router mac address | macaddress |
| wan_ipv4_ipaddr | router mac address | str, None |
| wan_ipv4_ipaddress | router mac address | ipaddress.IPv4Address, None |
| wan_ipv4_gateway | router WAN gateway IP address | str, None |
| wan_ipv4_gateway_address | router WAN gateway IP address | ipaddress.IPv4Address, None |
| wan_ipv4_conntype | router connection type | str |
| wan_ipv4_netmask | router WAN gateway IP netmask | str, None |
| wan_ipv4_netmask_address | router WAN gateway IP netmask | ipaddress.IPv4Address, None |
| wan_ipv4_pridns | router primary dns server | str |
| wan_ipv4_pridns_address | router primary dns server | ipaddress |
| wan_ipv4_snddns | router secondary dns server | str |
| wan_ipv4_snddns_address | router secondary dns server | ipaddress |
| lan_macaddr | router mac address | str |
| lan_macaddress | router mac address | macaddress |
| lan_ipv4_ipaddr | router LAN IP address | str |
| lan_ipv4_ipaddress | router LAN IP address | ipaddress |
| lan_ipv4_dhcp_enable | router LAN DHCP enabled | bool |
| lan_ipv4_netmask | router LAN gateway IP netmask | str |
| lan_ipv4_netmask_address | router LAN gateway IP netmask | ipaddress |
| remote | router remote | bool, None |

### <a id="vpn_status">VPNStatus</a>
| Field | Description | Type |
| --- |---|---|
| openvpn_enable | OpenVPN is enabled | bool |
| pptpvpn_enable | PPTPVPN is enabled | bool |
| openvpn_clients_total | OpenVPN clients connected | int |
| pptpvpn_clients_total | PPTPVPN clients connected | int |

### <a id="sms">SMS</a>
| Field | Description | Type |
| --- |---|---|
| id | message index | int |
| sender| sender | str |
| content| sms text | str |
| received_at| received datetime | datetime |
| unread| is message unread | bool |

### <a id="lte_status">LTEStatus</a>
| Field | Description | Type |
| --- |---|---|
| enable | is enabled | int |
| connect_status | connect status | int |
| network_type | network type | int |
| sim_status | sim status | int |
| total_statistics | total statistics in bytes | int |
| cur_rx_speed | current download speed in bytes per second  | int |
| cur_tx_speed | current upload speed in bytes per second  | int |
| sms_unread_count | sms unread amount  | int |
| sig_level | signal level  | int |
| rsrp | RSRP  | int |
| rsrq | RSRQ  | int |
| snr | SNR  | int |
| isp_name | ISP name  | str |

## Enum
### <a id="connection">Connection</a>
- Connection.HOST_2G - host wifi 2.4G
- Connection.HOST_5G - host wifi 5G
- Connection.HOST_6G - host wifi 5G
- Connection.GUEST_2G - guest wifi 2.4G
- Connection.GUEST_5G - guest wifi 5G
- Connection.GUEST_6G - guest wifi 5G
- Connection.IOT_2G - IoT wifi 2.4G
- Connection.IOT_5G - IoT wifi 5G
- Connection.IOT_6G - IoT wifi 6G
- Connection.WIRED - Wired

### <a id="vpn">VPN</a>
- VPN.OPEN_VPN
- VPN.PPTP_VPN

## <a id="supports">Supported routers</a>
- [TP-LINK routers](#tplink)
- [MERCUSYS routers](#mercusys)
### <a id="tplink">TP-LINK routers</a>
- Archer A6 V2.0
- Archer A7 V5
- Archer A8 (1.0, 2.20)
- Archer A9 V6
- Archer A20 v1.0
- Archer AX10 v1.0
- Archer AX12 v1.0
- Archer AX20 (v1.0, v3.0)
- Archer AX21 (v1.20, v3.0)
- Archer AX23 (v1.0, v1.2)
- Archer AX50 v1.0
- Archer AX53 v2
- Archer AX55 (v1.0, V1.60, v4.0)
- Archer AX72 V1
- Archer AX73 V1
- Archer AX75 V1
- Archer AX90 V1.20
- Archer AXE75 V1
- Archer AXE5400 v1.0
- Archer AXE16000
- Archer AX1800
- Archer AX3000 V1
- Archer AX6000 V1
- Archer AX11000 V1
- Archer BE230 v1.0
- Archer BE400 v1.0
- Archer BE550 v1.0
- Archer BE800 v1.0
- Archer BE805 v1.0
- Archer BE3600 1.6
- Archer C1200 (v1.0, v2.0)
- Archer C2300 (v1.0, v2.0)
- Archer C6 (v2.0, v3.0, v3.20, 4.0)
- Archer C6U v1.0
- Archer C7 (v4.0, v5.0)
- Archer C24 (1.0, 2.0)
- Archer C60 v2.0
- Archer C80 (1.0, 2.20)
- Archer C5400X V1
- Archer GX90 v1.0
- Archer MR200 (v5, v5.3, v6.0)
- Archer MR550 v1
- Archer MR600 (v1, v2, v3)
- Archer VR400 v3
- Archer VR600 v3
- Archer VR900v
- Archer VR1200v v1
- Archer VR2100v v1
- Archer VX1800v v1.0
- BE11000 2.0
- Deco M4 2.0
- Deco M4R 2.0
- Deco M5 v3
- Deco M9 Pro
- Deco M9 Plus 1.0
- Deco P7
- Deco X20
- Deco X50 v1.3
- Deco X55 1.0
- Deco X60 V3
- Deco X90
- Deco XE75 (v1.0, v2.0)
- Deco XE75PRO (v3.0)
- EX511 v2.0
- HX510 v1.0
- NX510v v1.0
- TD-W9960 (v1, V1.20)
- TL-MR100 v2.0
- TL-MR105
- TL-MR110-Outdoor v1.0
- TL-MR6400 (v5, v5.3)
- TL-MR6500v
- TL-WA1201 3.0
- TL-WA3001 v1.0
- TL-XDR3010 V2
- TL-WDR3600 V1
- VX420-G2h v1.1
- XC220-G3v v2.30
### <a id="mercusys">MERCUSYS routers</a>
- MR47BE v1.0
- MR50G 1.0
- H60XR 1.0
- Halo H80X 1.0

Please let me know if you have tested integration with any other model. Open an issue with info about router's model, hardware and firmware versions.

## <a id="add_support">Adding Support For More Models</a>
Guidelines [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/AlexandrErohin/TP-Link-Archer-C6U/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)

## Local Development

- Download this repository.
- Run `pip install -e path/to/repo`.
- Make changes to files within the `tplinkrouter6u` directory.
- Exercise the changes following the "Usage" section above.

The sanity check test.py illustrates a few tests and runs through a list of queries in queries.txt creating logs of the results of each query in the logs folder. This can be used to capture the dictionary output of all cgi-bin form submissions.

### Run tests
- Run `python -m unittest discover ./test`

## Thanks To
 - [EncryptionWrapper for TP-Link Archer C6U](https://github.com/ericpignet/home-assistant-tplink_router/pull/42/files) by [@Singleton-95](https://github.com/Singleton-95)
 - [Encryption for TP-Link W9960](https://github.com/Electry/TPLink-W9960-APIClient) by [@Electry](https://github.com/Electry)
